# Non-Contact Calibration Igor Pro codebase

Non-contact method for calibration of the atomic force microscopes: use of multiple modes for self-consistent determination of detector sensitivities and cantilever spring constants

Using Sader’s approach to structure-fluid interaction (Rev. Sci. Instr., 1999, 70, 3967), the thermally excited motion of cantilever probes used in scanning force microscopes can be treated in a uniform manner for flexural and torsional cases. We show that the shapes of the power spectral density for modes of arbitrary order are formally identical in the two cases. Thus, both normal and lateral forces can be calibrated through an equivalent fully non-contact method. To ensure accuracy, we systematically address all the corrections arising with the adaptation of the idealized model of the cantilever to a realistic experimental setup. We demonstrate how the main factors such as detector response function, laser spot position, and tip end mass or moment of inertia can be derived from the same power spectra by requiring self-consistency in the analysis of the multiple resonance peaks. The limitation of the simple harmonic oscillator model in describing heavy fluid loading situations is addressed with a new approximate form of the power spectral density.  The proposed approximation to spectral density can be applied to general situations, showing an excellent agreement with experimental peak shapes under both light and heavy fluid loading. A general simple approximate form is also suggested for the hydrodynamic function, which is suitable for use in both flexural and torsional cases for arbitrary normalized mode numbers and enables fitting of the power spectra to structure-fluid oscillator models containing hydrodynamic function explicitly. Self-consistent application of the proposed non-contact calibration to multi-peak power spectra should routinely give the detector sensitivity with uncertainty around 1%
